(tense music playing)
ABBY: A major Broadway casting agent
is coming to my studio.
We can stop.
CHRISTI: It's our annual
Dance Company Showcase.
(applause)
ABBY: What is she doing?
She changed the dance.
KELLY: If she wanted to do a solo
she should have just did it.
Because none of us wanted to do
the stupid dance, anyways.
CASTING AGENT: Maddie is a star.
Come with me, Maddie.
CHRISTI: The whole Broadway
casting agent thing
was total bull (bleep).
ABBY: Coming up
on Dance Moms...
We are going to Starpower.
This is the last regional
to qualify for their nationals.
Oh, my God.
My grandmother just got
rushed to the hospital.
My grandma got bad,
overnight. (crying)
I don't know if I should go.
KELLY: Brooke's costume is awful.
CATHY: Brooke is now
wearing Vivi's top.
I'm not happy.
I don't want Brooke
wearing the costume.
My daughter is dancing
in three minutes.
And you're taking
the costumer off of her back.
-I know. It doesn't fit her!
-Go back to your studio.
You know what? I'm not.
I'm here to stay, so like it.
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Get up ♪
♪ Get on the floor ♪
♪ My world is with my girls ♪
♪ Living on the dance floor ♪
(tense music playing)
I want to talk about
this upcoming weekend.
It's regionals.
Everybody knows
how important that is.
We are going to Starpower.
You know that's one
of the toughest competitions out there.
This week is make
or break for nationals.
We've worked for months
to get to this point, right now.
This is what's going to happen
for this next weekend.
Maddie, new solo.
Brooke, new solo.
Chloe, new solo.
Now...
HOLLY: Once again, here we are.
Nia is never picked for a solo.
I'm losing confidence in Abby
because she doesn't believe
in my kid.
ABBY: The age categories
are a little different,
so we want to make sure
that your dance is about you,
a dancer now,
not the beginning of the season.
Every competition's age
category is different.
Usually, Chloe and Maddie
end up in the same age group
because they're
only a year apart.
But this time, at Starpower,
Chloe is in the nine
to eleven age category
and Maddie
is in the eight and under.
Chloe deserves a chance to win
without the shadow of Maddie
hovering over her.
We are doing a new
group routine this weekend
and everybody is in it,
the entire cast.
It is called "Where Have
All the Children Gone."
This is a routine about
children who become missing.
You've all seen the children's
faces on the milk cartons.
It's contemporary,
it's mature, and it is very dark.
You have to be great
actresses to pull it off.
And they're all in white,
like they're angels.
I don't want any discrepancies.
I don't want any opinions.
"Where Have All
the Children Gone"
is one of those routines
that simple and clean,
but it tells a story.
It makes you think.
And that's what
people are looking for
in an overall high score
winning number.
This is a big regionals for us,
and I want them to do something
that nobody's ever seen before.
I want to change it up.
And I don't think any of the moms
would dare say anything to me.
Moms, I'm going to go ahead
and dismiss you now.
We have lots of work to do.
Girls, up. Let's get moving.
Let's get moving.
Come on.
Let's go. Let's go.
(upbeat music playing)
MAN (whispering):
All the children once running around
have evacuated.
Where have
all the children gone?
ABBY: "Where Have All
the Children Gone"
is a very haunting,
dark piece of music.
When you're out of competition,
the dancers
that everybody's talking about
the next day, or the pieces,
are the ones that
told the story.
The kids that could act
as well as dance,
the choreographers
that made you think
about something,
that made you feel something.
And that's what "Where Have
All the Children Gone"
does to people.
MAN (whispering):
This is just a dream.
The original concept
is about children
that have gone missing,
so the kids
on the milk carton,
the kids in the news every night.
But I put a little edge to it
as to maybe there
was some bullying involved
and it was causing other children
to commit suicide.
That's what the story is about.
MAN (whispering):
We hope they're hiding.
To be honest, I don't really know
what the meaning of
"Where Have All the Children Gone."
But Miss Abby said
we're giving the message
to parents that this has
still been happening
and you should be safe.
But it really like it.
It's really cool
and creepy and awesome.
MAN (whispering):
Where have all the children gone?
I love dark stuff
because I do dark stuff.
And I even did
a missing child thing.
But I don't think
that this is age appropriate
for Mackenzie and Vivi, at all.
I'm sorry.
CHRISTI: I'm surprised.
I'm surprised at this.
Yeah. I'm not happy
about that, at all.
KELLY: It is very disturbing song.
My kids are fine
with it being dark music.
I don't even think
they really listen to the words
of whether
the costume or the music--
I mean, it's just,
that's the art of it.
CHRISTI: I really worry
that this number
may be too heavy for girls this age.
It might be too depressing,
not only for the audience
but for the judges, as well.
HOLLY: To me,
it's about child abduction.
Is a message that I know,
for Nia, makes her very sad.
And I'm a little
uncomfortable with it.
Come in close.
Listen to me.
You're dancing.
You're doing steps.
You're trying to listen
to the words.
You're not interpreting
the story correctly.
And this is very serious because
maybe people in the audience
have had a child
that's gone missing,
so you're going
to touch somebody's heart.
So this has to be
a very serious routine.
And right now
you're just doing the steps.
And we need to get past that,
and we need to perform.
Do you two understand?
It's very serious.
I am an artist.
And when it comes
to complicated choreography,
the children who are the dancers,
they need to become
artists, as well.
And I want to teach them
to convey the story
with their emotional execution,
as well as their dance technique.
CHRISTI: So guess
what tomorrow is?
Kelly's going to be 40!
(cheering)
Lordy, lordy, look who's 40!
I don't quite know
how I feel turning 40.
I mean, I'm excited.
I think it's a new chapter of my life.
But then, when I think about, it
I think, oh, I'm so old.
CHRISTI: I have something planned.
We're going to go to your house.
I'm going to bring some goodies
and some cocktails and...
-Aye, aye,
-...no babies.
I think that what you guys
should do tomorrow
is go get Botox.
-Anybody who's 40--
-CHRISTI: Oh, I love it!
Do I look that old?
CATHY: Anybody--well, right here--
-anybody who's 40 needs to...
-CHRISTI: Yes!
-CATHY: ...start to think about that.
-KELLY: How rude!
CATHY: You could start
to get it underneath here
because it'll kind of, like...
I don't know
why Cathy is so insecure.
It might be
because she is older.
I mean, I think--doing the math,
I think Cathy may be old enough
to be my mother.
Well, I didn't think
I was that bad.
HOLLY: I like my wrinkles.
They add character.
KELLY: Good for you, Miss Holly.
(interposing voices)
KELLY: I thought
I liked myself, too,
but obviously Cathy doesn't.
(laughter)
CATHY: Kelly is 40
and fabulous, for sure.
But she needs to start to really think
about some high end maintenance.
I'm only 34.
Do you think I need it?
CATHY: Oh, yes. Yes.
That's where my personality
happens, up here,
because I'm always
making faces at people.
CATHY: And you know what?
Nobody wants to have
those frown lines.
CATHY: Christie is a lot
younger than all of us.
And, honestly, she has
furrows so deep in her brow
that, honest to gosh,
we could plant seeds in it
and she could have
a little bouquet there if we had to.
You've got the opportunity
to look better and look younger.
-CHRISTI: Yeah, I agree.
-Why not take advantage of it?
I'm in.
I think we should do it.
MELISSA: No.
They're doing gym.
You know, I want--
I want Mackenzie to have fun.
Excuse me.
I'll be back.
I was incredibly
frustrated after chalkboard.
I want the best for my daughter.
I want her to shine
and have the same opportunities
as the rest of the girls.
Once again, Nia has been
passed over for a solo.
And I'm angry, I'm frustrated,
and I'm really disappointed.
I'm really sick of it.
-ABBY: I want group two.
-Can we speak for one second?
-ABBY: Okay.
-Really quickly.
How come Nia doesn't have
a chance to do her solo?
She's not being stretched.
Because, as you said, like--
-the more exposure--
-Well, no. No, no, no. No, no, no.
And the thing is,
I don't want Nia to get to the point
where she thinks,
oh, I'm settling.
Oh, it's good I only do
two group numbers.
All these moms
want their kid to be in the spotlight,
but it's just not that easy.
It doesn't work that way.
Not everybody
can be in the spotlight.
You have to have the talent.
And some have it and some don't.
I want her to feel successful.
I want her to feel wanted.
I want you in there
with her private lessons.
I told you that
several weeks ago.
It's the ballet technique.
So it's over and over and over
and Nia, come on!
Wake up!
What are you doing?
HOLLY: And it's frustrating
because she doesn't hear me.
I feel like I'm not being heard,
and she just gives me
whatever answers
that are hollow.
They-they don't have
any meaning to them.
She's just trying to shut me up.
ABBY: It's not about
how many dances is this kid in
and how many is that,
and how much is this person paying
and how much is that.
Really, Holly,
that has very little to do with it.
I don't want you coming
back in and saying...
-I don't.
-ABBY: ...you're too tough on her.
-ABBY: I want her to know--
duet, trio,
is it worth doing the--
putting the time
and the energy in.
I want to see action.
Words are lovely,
but I want to see action.
I want to see some type
of commitment to Nia.
Whatever will get her
to that winning place is what--
-Okay.
-Exactly.
-That's what we need.
-All right.
Nia is a good dancer.
But is she great?
Not yet.
These moms think
that everything should be fair,
but it's not fair.
Life isn't fair.
Every competition
has different rules,
different age categories,
and I want to put the kids
in that are going to win.
(jolly music playing)
KELLY: We're coming today
to get injections for our wrinkles,
because Cathy seemed to think
that Christi and I
needed some improvements.
And since
it was my 40th birthday,
we decided that we would
come and do it today.
Here we go.
Kind of--it looks like
a dentist's office.
-MOMS: Oh!
-Well, I'm not a big fan
-of the dentist, either.
-Ew!
I don't like the way it looks.
-(Christi gasps)
-Oh, my God.
Look at those needles.
Oh, I'm scared!
Yeah, I'm very nervous.
I'm afraid of side effects,
like they say you can have
droopy eyelid and things like that.
And I'm just hoping
that everything turns out okay.
DOCTOR:
Just take a deep breath.
Relax.
CHRISTI: This is
where we needed cocktails.
Kelly, you're so brave.
Oh, Kelly.
I'm nervous, guys!
MELISSA: Oh,
it's going to be easy.
DOCTOR: Go ahead and frown.
Frown, frown, frown.
It's going to be
three quick pinches.
You okay?
CATHY: That was quick!
DOCTOR: Did it hurt?
Not at lot, like a bee sting.
Oh, in my face. okay.
KELLY: If I could handle it...
CHRISTI: Kelly went first.
And as I'm watching her,
I'm starting to panic
because it looks very painful.
They're going to stick
needles in my face.
I don't like needles in my arm,
let alone in my face.
She has tons of wrinkles
for being only 34.
-She really needs help.
-KELLY: You have tons.
I have these lines, here.
I guess I scowl a lot
and I raise my eyebrows.
And, you know, it's just kind
of part of my personality.
But everybody always
thinks I'm mad.
I'm really not.
So I guess I have mean eyes.
DOCTOR: A little pinch. Ready?
Right between the brows, here.
KELLY: A lot of those wrinkles.
Yeah. It's not too bad, huh?
I can't believe how fast it is.
I know. That's why people do it
on their lunch hour.
I'll be back tomorrow.
It didn't really even hurt.
I think it hurts more
to get your ears pierced.
I was happily surprised.
So a couple little pricks
and off we go.
(laughs) I'm afraid
I'm losing my mind.
-KELLY: Oh, that was great.
-CHRISTI: How exciting!
ABBY: Good morning, ladies.
Everybody ready to go?
This is regionals.
You know how important it is.
All of the experience the kids
have had competing
weekend after weekend
is all leading up to this point.
So we want to go
to Providence,
we want to put our best foot forward
and come out on top.
Today counts.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Sauté and coupé,
chainés and push, push!
For regionals,
Maddie is doing a routine
to the music "Beautiful."
It's a lyrical,
contemporary piece,
turns, jumps, leaps,
what she does best.
(mellow music playing)
Get off the floor on that coupé.
MADDIE: I always win first too
because I work really hard
in classes.
And I'm usually against,
like, seven-year-olds.
There's a lot of times
when I get bumped up
and I still get first place,
so I don't really get worried.
Every week
you have a new routine.
Yes?
What do you think
the judges are looking for?
Technique.
Right.
And technique means
all the hours you spend
in ballet class,
every plié, every relevé,
you need to rely
on your technique.
Yes? Any questions?
No?
Anything you want to go over?
It's good?
Okay.
See you on stage.
(mellow music playing)
Here we go!
Scoot, scoot, scoot!
ABBY: Da, da, da, da, da, da,
da, da, da, da, da, da, da.
And a one, two, three, four
and five and six and seven, eight...
CHLOE: I'm doing
a new solo this week
called "Parlez Moi."
And it's a little cute French dance
and uses personality.
And I really like it.
One, two, three, four, five.
I'm super nervous.
This is a new solo,
and I want to win first
so that I can go to nationals.
ABBY: Up, down, down.
Up, up, down, down.
Look at my baby girl!
Hello!
Baby!
How's the baby girl?
Hello!
Did you get a haircut?
I heard!
Broadway Baby is my dog.
Hello!
Hello, hello, hello!
She is the best thing in my life.
She doesn't roll her eyes at me.
She is wonderful,
absolutely wonderful.
All the way around, go.
That's fine.
(upbeat music playing)
KELLY: After we got Botox,
Cathy and Christi and I
went to have lunch down the street.
-It was fun.
-Mm-hmm.
I feel bad that you
didn't get it done, though.
I didn't need it, girls.
-But we sure did, didn't we, Cathy?
-CATHY: You sure did, that's right.
KELLY: Yeah.
Never had any intentions
of getting Botox until we met her.
Yeah. But I can tell you right now,
you are going to be junkies with it.
-So you're good.
-I better keep getting Botox.
I don't want anybody
to think I'm Chloe's grandma.
-(laughs)
-CATHY: That's right.
And with that nose of yours...
(laughter)
Cathy kept telling me
all the other cosmetic procedures
I needed,
like I needed a nose job.
Thank you, Cathy.
I'm quite comfortable with the way I look.
She was acting
like a junior high girl.
And, you know,
for somebody of that age,
you'd think she would
have grown up by now.
Do you guys golf?
-I used to be in a golf league.
-Oh, my God.
-What?
What?
My grandmother just got
rushed to the hospital, again.
During lunch,
I got a text message
that my grandmother
was taken back to the hospital, again.
CATHY: What's going on with her?
Has she had problems?
Yeah.
She's 87 and she has,
like, COPD
-and congestive heart failure.
-CATHY: Oh, God.
I am very close to her,
and I was very close
to my grandfather, as well.
So when you get that news
it's not the same as somebody saying,
like, oh, your grandmother is sick.
It very much is--it's my mother.
-(sighs)
-She'll be fine.
Why is she like your mom?
I don't have a good relationship
with my mother.
My mother had me
when she was very young.
And my grandparents
were my parents, more or less.
You may just have to go to her
instead of your other obligations
at the dance studio.
Yeah.
Going in the hospital
is not uncommon for her.
But something about this
one felt a little different.
But I got to run.
I got to go.
(dramatic music playing)
CHRISTI: My grandmother is sick
and she's in the hospital.
It's very hard.
I'm very, very close with her.
She's been the most important
mother figure that I've had.
She's amazing.
Thanks for coming
with me there, kiddo.
CHLOE: No problem.
CHRISTI:
When I was a little girl,
I dreamed of taking dance lessons.
And I lived
with my grandparents.
I moved back and forth,
on and off,
and I really want Chloe to go
to the house where I grew up in,
where I danced on the lawn
and I dreamed of having a life
like she does.
I'm excited to bring you here.
This is the base.
Yeah. My house is right here,
but that's not
what my house looked like.
I used to make Jody,
my little sister,
do recitals in the
front yard all the time.
We used to go like this.
Wait. You ready? Come in.
And I used to go...
I'm going to spin you out
and spin you back in.
(laughs)
My poor sister.
And then I used to try
to do this crazy lift.
Here, jump up.
You ready?
(laughter)
Oh, we almost got it!
Stop!
You're showing
the neighborhood my Spanx.
Go ahead, get in the car.
It's so important for me
to have Chloe
have an opportunity to shine
and show what she can do,
what she's worked hard for.
And every competition
is a chance for her to do that.
Although I didn't have all those
same opportunities that Chloe had,
my grandparents
were able to give me
something that my mother didn't,
and that was unconditional love.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Right, left, turn.
Push!
This week, for, regionals
I'm doing a solo called "Supermodel."
And it's an acrobatic
and contortion number.
ABBY: Don't run out of steam. Breathe.
If I win regionals,
then I qualify for nationals.
And that's what we've been
aiming for all season.
SINGER: ♪ Supermodel ♪
(tense music playing)
You ran, you ran,
and you stop.
And you're like, ooh!
Give me a hand.
Give me a fish. Ooh!
"Where Have All the Children Gone"
is a very haunting,
dark piece of music.
And I love to use stuff like that.
At some competitions
you'll see a lot of dark things,
and in others
it's your typical upbeat,
fun, tap, jazz whatever.
So I try to get my kids
to do everything.
Ooh, like you're trying
to grasp on to stay alive.
We already know that they can jump
and kick and leap and turn.
That's not in question.
But can they convey
this story to the audience?
A story which some of them
don't even understand.
Paige, figure where
you're supposed to be.
PAIGE: I think "Where Have
All the Children Gone"
could win
because it's a good number.
And we normally don't do
scary numbers like that.
We normally do more numbers
with face and personality.
Where have all
the children gone?
(jolly music playing)
MELISSA: Happy birthday!
-KELLY: Hello, Miss Holly.
-HOLLY: Happy birthday.
HOLLY: How does
it feel to be 40?
-Terrible.
-(laughs)
It's my birthday this week.
I'm turning 40.
And Christi has invited
herself to my house
with the girls for a party.
CHRISTI: Oh, cheers!
Happy birthday!
MOM: Oh, I love it!
This is for you... and...
Randy.
(screams)
(laughter)
If you eat candy off of Randy,
I'm going to lose my (bleep).
HOLLY: What's coming up next?
(laughter)
CHRISTI: Melissa is, like,
the dirty one in the group.
She really is.
And it was hysterical
because everything
she's pulling out of the bag,
she was trying to slip behind the pillow
and take home later.
Kelly, look.
Have you ever faked an orgasm?
-No!
-She's never had one.
(laughter)
The moms always get along.
You know, we argue, we fight.
-I don't know about--
-MELISSA: I love it.
CHRISTI: But I think
this was a really good night for us
because we kind of laughed.
We put everything aside.
We just enjoyed
each other's company.
-Oh, that's cute.
-Cute.
I had a great time.
MELISSA:
Cheers to the rest of season, girls,
and I love you all.
Cheers.
-May we all come out survivors.
-MELISSA: Yes.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: How we doing, ladies?
KELLY: Can you try
to keep those straight up? Thanks.
ABBY: Today we're on our way
to Providence, Rhode Island,
for Starpower
Regional Competition.
Providence is an hour
outside of Boston,
and wicked, wicked competition.
And we hope to qualify
all of our routines.
Get your stuff, babe.
I have got to get
my stuff out the back. Okay?
Chloe and I arrived
at the dance studio
to board the bus to get ready
to go to Rhode Island.
And I got a call from my cousin.
And she had said overnight
that my Gram had gotten worse,
and she was now on a ventilator.
What's going on?
My grandma got bad overnight.
(crying) She's not conscious,
and they had to put her
on a ventilator.
(dramatic music playing)
I don't know if I should go.
I can't imagine,
you know, living my life
without knowing my grandmother's here.
Even if I don't see her
or talk to her everyday,
just knowing that she's there...
I don't know.
It gives me strength.
And to think about her
not being here anymore,
you know, it just--it's very hard.
I'm very, very close with her.
You have to do
what makes you feel good.
I know.
If you feel like
you need to be here, then stay.
Chloe will be fine.
CHRISTI: At this point,
I just don't know what I'm going to do.
How am I supposed to choose
between two people I love so much?
(tense music playing)
If you feel like
you need to be here, then stay.
Chloe will be fine.
I know. I know.
BROOKE: Do you know
how to French braid?
MOM: I do.
CHRISTI: I'm absolutely
conflicted about what to do,
if I should go on this dance trip,
which at this point
is so not my priority,
or if I should go to the hospital.
It's bad enough that it's going on,
and now you're leaving.
But I know what my grandmother
would tell me to do.
She would tell me
to go get on the plane.
KELLY: Yes, she would.
My grandmother has been
an incredible supporter
of Chloe since day one.
And my grandmother would have said,
don't be ridiculous.
You go get on that plane
and do what you need to do for Chloe.
You come back and see me.
I'll be here.
(upbeat music playing)
(cheering and applause)
ABBY: Starpower
is a big competition.
The judges will be looking
for technique, choreography,
performance, costume.
I feel great.
I think we're very well prepared
and we're ready to go.
Can I have everybody gather up
so I can talk to everybody?
I want eye contact, here.
There's people here
from all over the place.
And the reason is,
this is the last regional
to qualify for their nationals.
So I need you to be
on the A game today.
You have a new solo today.
I was going to have you dance
in whatever the next age group is,
nine to eleven.
You've had a really easy year.
You're on eight and under
and you're eight.
You're at the top
of the age scale. Yes?
Everybody else is at the bottom
of their age scale.
So we're to bump you up
and put you on the youngest side,
just so we see how it is.
All right?
I can't believe
Abby bumped Maddie up
into Chloe's age category.
It's just typical Abby.
She can't let Chloe
just have her day.
She always has to
make it about Maddie.
CHLOE: I really don't want Maddie
bumped up into my age category.
Because I feel like
I have a better chance of winning
first place if we were
in separate categories.
Okay.
But we have to get ready.
We have to get ready. Yes.
Where is...
Brooke's costume?
Ew.
MELISSA: That looks like
Mackenzie would wear that.
That...
Brooke's costume is awful.
It was hot pink,
and it had red polka dots on it
that were stickers.
It was just terrible.
I don't know
how we're going to come up
with another costume,
but Brooke is not wearing
this costume onstage.
That is just ugly.
Does it look like
13 to 15-year-old age?
No. She looks like
Pennywise the clown.
(indistinct chatter)
ABBY: Do you mind if
she tries it on?
(indistinct chatter)
CATHY: Brooke gets
handed her costume.
It is probably the ugliest costume
I have ever seen.
And all eyes fall on Vivi's top.
And all of a sudden,
Brooke is now wearing Vivi's top.
I like the top.
Vivi finally gets a costume
that is a custom made costume,
and we have to now share.
I'm not happy.
(cheering and applause)
ANNOUNCER: (indistinct)
hip-hop nine to 11-year-olds.
Dancer number two,
put your hands together for (indistinct).
(cheering and applause)
Break a leg.
And I love your veil.
You're so sassy.
All right.
Good luck, have fun!
It's really important that
they make my mom proud of me.
And when I'm dancing,
I always look for her in the audience.
ANNOUNCER: It's the Musical
Theater category, nine to eleven.
Please welcome to the stage,
Chloe, in "Parlez Moi."
(cheering and applause)
SINGER: (singing in French)
CHRISTI:
When I watch Chloe dance,
it is such an amazing
feeling for me.
It's like magic.
She is my little girl.
I love her more
than words can say.
And when she's on stage,
she's perfection.
SINGER: (singing in French)
(cheering and applause)
(tense music playing)
MADDIE: "Beautiful"
is kind of a difficult dance
and I really like
the challenges.
And I'm not afraid
of competing against older girls
because I'm used
to winning every dance I do.
ANNOUNCER: Coming up
right now, judges, is 27-A.
27-A, this is Maddie
with a contemporary age nine.
It's "Beautiful."
(lyrical music playing)
CHRISTI: There's other kids
on the team who have worked hard.
And Abby should have left
Maddie in her own age category.
Because then Maddie
could have done that category,
Chloe could have done this one,
Brooke could have done the next one.
She moved Maddie up
so that she would make sure
that Chloe didn't win.
SINGER:
♪ Didn't I, oh, didn't I tell you ♪
♪ When you took me that far? ♪
(cheering and applause)
SINGER: ♪ So beautiful ♪
ANNOUNCER: All right, folks,
here's your top five.
Here we go.
In third place, entry number 24.
MELISSA: The stakes are really high
because this is regionals.
And we have to do really well
because this has to qualify us
for nationals.
Ladies and gentlemen,
by less than one point
separates second from first.
Second place, entry number 25.
That's Chloe
from Abby Lee Miller.
(cheering and applause)
And, ladies and gentlemen,
your Power Division
nine to eleven soloist
and they win the check,
the plaque,
your winner will be...
Maddie Ziegler with "Beautiful."
(applause)
CHRISTI: Maddie beat Chloe
by half a point.
They shouldn't have even been
competing against one another.
I mean, this is kind
of getting ridiculous.
Chloe's constantly
being set up to lose.
It's not fair.
CHLOE: I don't think
it's fair that I didn't get first.
I lost by half a point.
CHRISTI: She's at least
able to compete at nationals.
Tell everybody
your name one more time.
-Maddie.
-ANNOUNCER: And what studio?
Abby Lee Dance Company.
And who was
your choreographer?
MADDIE: Abby Lee.
ANNOUNCER:
Girls, guys, take them out!
MELISSA: Maddie won
first place for her solo.
She's definitely going to nationals.
(cheering and applause)
(announcer indistinct chattering)
Let's get some glitter.
HOLLY: You're going to put
glitter and get glitter
on Cathy's costumer?
KELLY: Oh, screw Cathy.
-I ain't afraid of her.
-HOLLY: Ooh. (laughs)
(tense music playing)
How did it go?
CATHY: It was good,
but you know what...
I--I thought about it
and I really don't want
Paige--Paige--
what's your kid's name?
-Brooke.
-Move, please.
I don't want Brooke
wearing the costume.
I'm sorry.
I just--I thought about it
and I saw you over here
floundering the way
you were sewing that.
And it's not going to look
the same tomorrow
and we just need to come up
with something else.
Whatever, Brooke.
Take the costume off.
You know what, Cathy?
If you don't want
to be part of our group...
-CATHY: You know--
-...don't come to our studio.
CATHY: Kelly,
it has nothing to do with--
-Get the costume off.
-CATHY: It has nothing to do
-with being part of your group.
-My daughter is dancing in three minutes.
-Well, I'm sorry.
-You're taking the costume off.
I know, but it's ridiculous
that you guys aren't prepared.
Whatever, Cathy.
Come here.
Come back here, Kelly.
We need to talk.
-Leave our studio.
-I don't need to leave your studio.
My daughter has to go on stage.
CATHY: I think we need to talk.
Cathy is way out of line
coming up to me three numbers
before my daughter
is going on stage
and having her take
her costume off.
And I think it's (bleep).
It's ridiculous.
I never saw such
disorganization in all my life.
KELLY: Yeah. Well,
it isn't my disorganization, is it?
-CATHY: Well, you know what?
-But it'll hurt my daughter.
You know what?
I think that from now on
when Abby insists
on ridiculousness like this,
that you stand up for yourself.
Go back to your studio!
You know what? I'm not.
I'm here to stay, so like it.
My daughter
has to go on stage.
-I think we need to talk.
-No.
Cathy is definitely
not a team player.
She's just looking out
for herself and her daughter.
You're doing it
to show Abby something,
-and my daughter gets hurt.
-No, I'm not.
I'm not doing it
to show Abby anything.
-Whatever, Cathy.
-CATHY: It's just that
I haven't come
and asked you for costumes.
-How did we even--
-No. But everybody else.
That's what we do
as a group, Cathy.
CATHY: How did
we even come to that?
KELLY: We always share costumes.
I mean, that's what(man) a group is about.
CATHY: They haven't had
a new costume...
-Whatever.
-...the way everybody else has.
Well, why didn't you tell me this earlier
so I could have got
my costume from Maddie.
Kelly how many
new costumes have you had?
-It doesn't matter.
-Go back to your studio!
CATHY: You know what?
I'm not.
-I'm here to stay so like it.
-KELLY: Yeah.
-Yeah, I don't.
-CATHY: Okay.
-KELLY: Neither does anybody else.
-CATHY: Well, that's your problem.
That's your problem.
You need to like it.
Well, here's your costume
and you can sew it yourself.
Hire one of your sewing ladies to sew it.
Well, I intend to.
She ripped
the costume off of her,
and she had the audacity
to throw it at me.
My daughter is going to dance
in her leotard and tights,
and I'd like to have one
of your kids from your studio
-out there dancing against her.
-Well, you know something?
-Because I can guarantee you...
-You know what?
-...she will beat their ass...
-Oh, I doubt it.
-...wearing a (bleep) leotard.
-I doubt it.
-Watch.
-Let's go.
-I doubt it.
Your kids all have sickle feet,
and it blows my mind.
Because that's all you hear is,
sickle feet, sickle feet, sickle feet.
And they all have them.
Let's bring your studio
to a competition we go to.
-CATHY: Bring it on. Bring it on.
-Bring it on, Cathy.
Do not let it upset you.
Okay?
You look fine.
You don't need a costume to win.
The costume looked nothing
like what Vivi's was going to
look like tomorrow for the duet.
It was a totally different look.
She just didn't want
Brooke to wear the costume.
I just think it was totally wrong,
and very unfair to my daughter.
And I did not appreciate it.
ANNOUNCER: From Acro/Gymnastics
category, 12 to 14...
BROOKE:
I'm not really mad at Cathy.
I wish you just would have told me
I wasn't allowed to wear it earlier
because she took it off
like two numbers
before I went onstage.
So I was really
nervous and, like,
didn't know what the judges
were going to think.
Because I'm supposed to be
a supermodel and I was wearing,
like, a crop top and booty shorts.
(applause)
(acrobatic music playing)
(cheering and applause)
SINGER: ♪ Tonight I look
like something ♪
♪ Right out of a magazine ♪
♪ And everybody stares
when I step up on the scene ♪
♪ I'm looking like a supermodel,
a supermodel ♪
Work it girl!
SINGER: ♪ And I love
to get all the attention ♪
She almost fell.
SINGER: ♪ Tonight I look
like something ♪
♪ Right out of a magazine ♪
(cheering and applause)
SINGER: ♪ I'm looking like
a supermodel, a supermodel ♪
♪ I'm looking like a supermodel ♪
♪ A supermodel, a supermodel ♪
(cheering and applause)
(foreboding music playing)
BROOKE: There was so much drama
going on backstage
that I think it kind of messed up
my dance a little bit
because I was so nervous.
-Good job, Brookie!
-MELISSA: You did great, honey.
CHRISTI: You did great.
KELLY: Brooke went on stage,
she did fine.
I think Brooke dances well enough
that she doesn't need
rhinestones and costumes.
-CHRISTI: You did great.
-HOLLY: Aw.
Why are you crying?
Because Cathy just
got me so pissed off.
And, you know, you did--
went out, you did great.
Great.
(pensive music playing)
CATHY: This morning,
when we walked
into our dressing rooms,
I had no idea
where my costume was.
Where's your mom?
Because I need my top.
Last night I told Kelly
that she had to fix Vivi's costume
since she tore it to pieces.
And she was still working
on sewing the rhinestones on.
-MELISSA: If you want to put your--
-CATHY: Vivi dances at 10:22.
CATHY: And I'm not--
I'm not like you guys.
I don't run to the stage after her
with a darning needle.
I will have it ready.
But I'm not like you,
who takes it from the kid five minutes
before they go onstage.
Maybe that's when
I should give you yours.
CATHY: I'm a lot more
prepared than you are.
So, Brooke,
did you do well last night?
Oh, congratulations, Brooke.
I'm sorry.
Oh, she got sixth.
Ooh.
Yeah.
Brooke won sixth place
not because of the costume.
Because there were
five other girls
that were better than her.
All right, Cathy,
here's your costume.
I hope the rhinestones
give your daughter some luck.
I hate Cathy.
I ended up fixing
Vivi's costume.
You couldn't tell
I had touched it, at all.
Cathy just needs
to keep her mouth shut.
Have you heard anything
about your grandma?
No.
And, you know, I'm kind
of looking at it like,
-you know, no news is good news.
-Yeah.
I can't allow myself
to think like, you know,
that she's mortal
and that someday
she's not going to be here.
-I mean, I--
-Yeah. I mean, she is, what, 80...
-She's 87.
-Seven.
-She's getting up there.
-CHRISTI: But I need her.
-KELLY: I know.
-Like, she's my mom.
Like, I need her.
I'm not ready not to have my mom.
Let me see if I can call her.
(phone ringing)
Aunt Jackie?
-AUNT JACKIE (on phone): Hi.
-Hi.
What's going on with Gram?
AUNT JACKIE (on phone):
She is doing much better in fact.
She is off of the ventilator.
She has been moved out of ICU.
All good news so far.
Oh, good.
AUNT JACKIE (on phone):
Yeah, she's asking for you.
Aw.
I'll be there.
I'll be there tomorrow.
AUNT JACKIE (on phone):
Sure. I know you will, sweetie.
CHRISTI: My grandmother's condition
has improved, significantly.
And I feel so much better.
I feel so relieved.
And now I know that I made
the right decision
on coming to the competition with Chloe.
I would try
to leave early tomorrow.
I'm going to go.
I'm going to go as soon as I can.
-(exhales) I'm so relieved.
-KELLY: I know.
Give me a hug.
Don't worry about it.
Up!
Inside.
Today's group number is
"Where Have All the Children Gone?"
It is a dark topic that has to do
with children that have gone missing.
Choreographically,
there is an edginess to it
and it's very subtle.
So I don't even know
if the judges
will see all of that happening.
MAN (whispering):
...flesh of their sons and daughters.
Where have all
the children gone?
HOLLY: I think artistically
it's a beautiful piece.
-Yeah.
-HOLLY: But it's pretty somber
to see a child choking themselves.
I am always a big believer
that Abby always has
a strategy in mind that she doesn't
share with everybody else.
She's the expert, I'm not.
And that's what we're
paying her to do,
and I have to trust
that she knows what she's doing.
It's jarring.
I don't know.
It's just plain creepy.
It is a little creepy
because it's death.
HOLLY: It's death and it's violent.
CHRISTI: I'm not really sure
about "Where Have All
the Children Gone?"
It's really dark.
I mean, we have little kids on stage
handling an issue that's--
that's too dark for most adults.
I don't think Abby wants
to hear anything we have to say.
No, please.
If we tell her that we're disturbed,
she'll shabby chokey us.
HOLLY: I know, exactly.
(tense music playing)
ABBY: It's a heavy topic.
I know that.
But I'm trying to challenge them
to emotionally execute
the concept along with their dancing.
ANNOUNCER: Okay.
Please welcome to the stage,
"Where Have
All the Children Gone?"
MAN (whispering):
The creaking silence of age
echoes through the streets.
Sounds like old wooden floors
under heavy feet.
All of the children,
once running around,
have evacuated.
Or maybe they just disappeared.
Where have
all the children gone?
Just yesterday
they were tying ribbons in trees
and swinging from the branches.
Maybe this is just a dream.
Maybe they're sleeping in rooms
filled with metal shelves.
If we put our ears
to those shelves,
where have all
the children gone?
But we know
this is really happening.
Where have
all the children gone?
(cheering and applause)
HOLLY: The dance was amazing,
although disturbing.
I'm glad my child was a part of that.
It really did stretch her,
as a dancer.
ABBY: I don't think
that anyone would say
it's too heavy and too mature.
Now maybe some
of the moms thought that,
but once again,
I'm not out to please the moms.
I'm out to please the judges.
ANNOUNCER: We're going to find
out the 11 and under
highest scoring routine of the day.
If we were at nationals,
this would be your 11 and under
Victory Cup winner.
Ladies and gentlemen,
the highest scoring routine
of the day went to...
entry number 250,
"Where Have All the Children Gone?"
Congratulations, guys, all of you.
Congratulations goes to you.
CHRISTI: I questioned
the dance from the beginning,
but Abby was right.
She pulled it off.
ANNOUNCER: Good job!
Take a bow! Thank you, girls!
MELISSA: Our girls
did qualify for nationals,
so we are going to nationals.
ABBY:
There were over 280 acts,
and they were first,
the highest scoring number
in the entire competition.
I knew this would be a risk,
but it was definitely a risk
I was willing to take.
It made everybody stop
and pay attention to my dancers.
I'm Abby Lee Miller.
That's what I do.
Congratulations!
-(cheering and applause)
-Aren't you guys so excited?
Oh, I'm so proud of all of you!
The girls won the top award
that you could win,
and they deserved it.
Things are looking
really good for nationals.
Now I have a better idea
of what we're going to take.
We just need to figure out
how we're going to get that swing there.
But this isn't the end.
It's only the beginning.
We have a long road
before we get to nationals.
(cheering)
ABBY: All right. I'm think...
Can we go to the mall now?
-Yes. I think you can go to the mall now.
-Yes!
ABBY: They think things
are tough now, but just wait.
Things are about
to get a lot tougher.
Let's go.